[KEP] Continue adding context to the KIC 2.0 KEP (#1132)
Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller: railgun/keps/0003-kic-kubebuilder-re-architecture.md

  - [Test Plan](#test-plan)
  - [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
- [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)
<!-- /toc -->

> ## Release Signoff Checklist

Reviewer: We already have a process for issues blocking other issues - putting a "blocker" label with a reference to blocker issues in the GH issue tracker. My feeling is that the release signoff checklist duplicates that (in a way that will be hidden from our typical work planning practices).

Unless you see a need for such checklists in KEPs, I recommend that we stick with the existing "blocker process" rather than defining such a checklist here. I'm open to hearing your thoughts here, though :thinking:

Author: I would consider this a reference, and would be happy to remove the checklist portion of it if you think that improves it? It's mostly about posterity.

Author: Removed and made into NOTES

[impl]:https://kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/controller-overview.html

### Non-Goals

We reference [UDPIngress][udpingress] in the implementation history (below) as it was used for demonstration, but completing new features and APIs is not in scope for this KEP, though the result of this KEP is that newer features are intended to be easier to contribute.

We can use the improvements made here to _demonstrate_ the ease of adding new features on the new architecture, but the full scope of GA for new features will need to be a follow up KEP.

[udpingress]:https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/milestone/14

## Proposal

> The historical releases of the KIC (which we will refer to as `v1.x`, even though technically that includes `v0.x` releases) were built on an older controller architecture forked from the [NGinx Ingress Controller][nginx-ingress-controller] some years prior.

Reviewer: Maybe keep saying 
_pre-v2.0_ 
instead of
_v1.x (but keep in mind that it really means v1.x and v0.x)_?
?

Author: Sure sounds good!
```suggestion
The historical releases of the KIC (which we will refer to as `pre-v2`) were built on an older controller architecture forked from the [NGinx Ingress Controller][nginx-ingress-controller] some years prior.
```

This legacy served us well for the years to come, but at the point where this KEP was written (early 2021) it was becoming noticeably harder to continue maintaining and adding new features to the KIC as it fundamentally hadn't grown alongside much of the rest of the Kubernetes open source community.

Since the inception of KIC new Software Development Kits (SDK) have been created to support building and maintaining Kubernetes controllers:

- [Kubebuilder][kb]
- [OperatorSDK][osdk]

> These SDK's simplify, automate and ultimately generate some of the code we had been historically maintaining ourselves including (but not limited to):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These SDKs simplify, automate and ultimately generate some of the code we had been historically maintaining ourselves including (but not limited to):
```
